Main Page
Jump to navigationJump to search
« Page as of 2023-08-19, editions Mobile 5.0, Desktop 2.0 »
Wiki
Home	About
Wiki | Memento	Getting started
Wiki | Memento	Indexes
Mobile | Desktop | Scripting	Support
Wiki | Memento
The Memento Wiki
A user-created, user-supported base of knowledge for the Memento Database app
Feel free to join us
This wiki is a living document (or set of documents) and as such is always under development and is nevertheless always working; we are always doing the best we can with what we've got and making the most of it. If we know we need information, though we don't have it or haven't written it yet, it will just stop, with red links indicating pages yet to be written. You may also encounter pages that display an "UNDER DEVELOPMENT" note. We recommend you wait (from a few days to a few months, and (to be honest) occasionally a few years until the message goes away before reading, as it will likely be erroneous.

While most aspects of Memento are common between the Mobile and Desktop editions, this wiki (generally) contains only information about the Mobile edition of Memento. Each page shows at the top of the page the version of the Mobile edition current as of the most recent change to the page. It also shows the version number of the Desktop edition current as of that date. Note the Help accessible within the app and from Help on the MementoDatabase.com Web site. Memento Help contains assistance for both the Mobile and Desktop editions.

An index to the pages of the wiki may be accessed via the following Index in the form of a table containing links to Wiki pages grouped vertically by topic and horizontally by the columns of Overviews, Specifications, Techniques, Tips, How, & Tutorials. Use the Index & wiki links throughout the wiki to navigate around among the pages of the wiki.


Contents
1	Where do I start with Memento?
2	Where do I go to learn how to use JavaScript to do more advanced things in Memento?
3	Mobile Edition navigation index
4	Scripting navigation index
5	The Memento Database Desktop Edition
5.1	Memento Database YouTube Channel
5.2	Introduction
5.3	Desktop Edition Welcome Page
5.4	Main window interface
5.5	Customizing the window interface
6	Desktop Navigation Index
7	Other assistance
8	Previous, obsolete documentation (erroneous & misleading)
Where do I start with Memento?
To start at the beginning, read the Memento Overview.
Read Library Overview about Memento's primary data structure.
The Field Overview will get you started on the elements of data structure within libraries. Then, read in the Index, using Overviews as needed, and Articles, Tips, How-to, and Techniques to learn whether you need it. Use specifications to look up Memento components as needed.

Where do I go to learn how to use JavaScript to do more advanced things in Memento?
Advanced users, use the Index below to navigate in Memento.

BEGINNERS IN MEMENTO JAVASCRIPT WANTING TO LEARN IT, go => HERE <= to learn.

The wiki is continually under development, so stay tuned for more articles about Memento and its use.

See what's new in Memento.

See Whats New in the Memento Wiki.

Read more about this wiki.

Within Specifications (or Specs), begin with User Interface for descriptions of screens, cards, menus, buttons, dialogs, etc.

Field is the best specification page for starting out with fields. Field Type is one of the most popular spec pages.



Mobile Edition navigation index
Topics	Overviews	Specs	About
Memento Database	Memento Database Plans Features Comparison
Memento Wiki
Glossary
Useful links
Releases

User Interface	How:Getting Started

How:Simple To Do List
Tutorial:Simple To Do List Enhancements
Bill's mementos
About:Color codes
CaseStudy:Designing Memento databases:Photographic equipment

Libraries
& templates	Library
Library Template

Libraries List screen
Library Edit screen
Library Groups
Library Protection

How:Add a Library
Fields, pages,
& subheaders	Field
Field Edit card
Field Role (Display in the list as)
Field Type
Page

Text fields

Text
Rich text (HTML)
Phone number
Email address
Hyperlink
Password
Barcode
Numeric fields

Integer
Integer values
Currency
Real number
Rating
Choice fields

Boolean
Single-choice list
Radio buttons
Multiple-choice list
Checkboxes
(Dynamic) List
Calculated expression fields

JavaScript
Calculation
Date fields

Date
DateTime
Time fields

Time
DateTime
Linking fields

Link to entry
Link to file
Media fields

Audio
Image
Signature
Miscellaneous fields

Contact
Location
Tags
Special content fields
Audio field
Barcode field
Contact field
Location field
Rich Text field
Signature field
Field Dependencies
Using JavaScript in Memento

Entries
& entry lists	Entry
Data analysis

Entry View card
Entry Edit card
Libraries List screen
Entries List screen

How:Access a Previous Entry
How:Slice & Dice Library Data

The Memento mobile edition user interface	Screens & cards	Libraries List screen
Library Edit screen
Entries List screen
Entry Edit card
Entry View card
File Manager card
Attached Files card
Charting data

The Memento desktop edition user interface	The Memento desktop edition overview
Windows & panes

Linking		Calculation field
Link To Entry field
Link To File field

Data Analysis (Slicing & dicing)
(Sorting, grouping, filtering, aggregation, & charting)	Slicing & Dicing
Aggregation

Entries List screen
Charting data

How:Slice & Dice Library Data
Installation
& settings		Memento Settings
Import, export,
synchronization,
backup, restore	Backup & Restore	Importing and exporting data
Formatting Templates screen

Tips:File Attachments
Cloud, platforms,
& collaboration	Platforms
Cloud storage and Teamwork

Cloud Library Status card
Security	Privacy Policy
Library Protection

Products	Memento Clients
Private Server
Team for Business

Tips:Team for Business
Jump to the index

Jump to the top



Scripting navigation index
Topics	Overviews	Specs	About
Scripting, Calculation,
& App Integration	Scripting	Calculation field
JavaScript field
Memento JavaScript Library
Memento UI JavaScript Library
Actions
Data Sources
Triggers
Script Widgets

Tasker Integration
Trigger Examples
How:Write scripts in JavaScript for Memento
Tips:Using JavaScript in Memento

Memento Database	Memento Database	Library fields	Memento Database Design
